README.md, before:

# Generate unit tests for HTTP clients with fixugen

Generate unit tests with fixugen and mocks HTTP responses [nock](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nock). Useful for modules that export a Javascript interface for i.e. REST APIs.

Uses [fixugen's](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@natlibfi/fixugen) **useMetadataFile** so your fixture directories must contain **metadata.json** file.

# Usage
```js
import 'fetch' from 'node-fetch';
import {expect} from 'chai';
import generateTests from '@natlibfi/fixugen-http-client';

generateTests({
  callback,
  path: [__dirname, '..', 'test-fixtures']
});

function callback({getFixture}) {
  // The base URL is always http://foo.bar
  const response = await fetch('http://foo.bar');
  expect(response.status).to.equal(200);
}
```
# Configuration
The following optional properties are supported in the factory function:
- **mocha**: Mocha options
- **fixura:** Fixura options
- **recurse**: Fixugen's *recurse* option. Defaults to **true**

## metadata.json
An array property **requests** must be present in **metadata.json** file. It supports the following properties:
- **status**: HTTP status code (Number). **Mandatory**.
- **method**: HTTP method in lowercase. **Mandatory**.
- **url**: URL of the request. This is only the location and parameters part of the actual URL. The base URL is always `http://foo.bar`. Must start with `/`. **Mandatory**.
- **requestHeaders**: An object representing requests headers.
- **responseHeaders**: An object representing response headers.

This configuration is also passed to the callback as the property **requests**.

## Request and response payloads
The fixture directory for each unit test can have request- and response payload fixtures which must match the following filename pattern:
`/^request[0-9]+`
`/^response[0-9]+`

Where `[0-9]+` denotes the index number of the fixture (Requests and responses are mocked in that order).

## License and copyright

Copyright (c) 2020-2024 **University Of Helsinki (The National Library Of Finland)**

This project's source code is licensed under the terms of **MIT** or any later version.

Commit message:

Use undici instead of nock

README.md, after:

# Generate unit tests for HTTP clients with fixugen

Generate unit tests with fixugen and mocks HTTP responses [nock](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nock). Useful for modules that export a Javascript interface for i.e. REST APIs.

Uses [fixugen's](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@natlibfi/fixugen) **useMetadataFile** so your fixture directories must contain **metadata.json** file.

*NOTE*: from version 4.0.0 onwards fixugen-http-client-js uses undici insteads of nock and won't work for testing stuff that uses node-fetch instead of node native fetch

# Usage
```js
import {expect} from 'chai';
import generateTests from '@natlibfi/fixugen-http-client';

generateTests({
  callback,
  path: [__dirname, '..', 'test-fixtures']
});

function callback({getFixture}) {
  // The base URL is always http://foo.bar
  const response = await fetch('http://foo.bar');
  expect(response.status).to.equal(200);
}
```
# Configuration
The following optional properties are supported in the factory function:
- **mocha**: Mocha options
- **fixura:** Fixura options
- **recurse**: Fixugen's *recurse* option. Defaults to **true**

## metadata.json
An array property **requests** must be present in **metadata.json** file. It supports the following properties:
- **status**: HTTP status code (Number). **Mandatory**.
- **method**: HTTP method in uppercase. **Mandatory**.
- **url**: URL of the request. This is only the location and parameters part of the actual URL. The base URL is always `http://foo.bar`. Must start with `/`. **Mandatory**.
- **query**: An object representing requests query parameters (Note: these can also be given as string in **url**)
- **requestHeaders**: An object representing requests headers.
- **responseHeaders**: An object representing response headers.

This configuration is also passed to the callback as the property **requests**.

## Request and response payloads
The fixture directory for each unit test can have request- and response payload fixtures which must match the following filename pattern:
`/^request[0-9]+`
`/^response[0-9]+`

Where `[0-9]+` denotes the order in which requests and responses are mocked (at least for single digits). Note that if unit test has several requests, request and response payload fixtures are matched to these in order, regardless of the digit used in file name. (Ie if we have three requests and request1.txt and response3.txt fixtures, both request1.txt and response3.txt get mapped to first request.)


## License and copyright

Copyright (c) 2020-2024 **University Of Helsinki (The National Library Of Finland)**

This project's source code is licensed under the terms of **MIT** or any later version.
